We've seen services, but ultimately, for
something to move from being
trivial to non-trivial,
we need to be able to communicate
with a remote server.
So in the grand scheme of things,
the question is,
where is the single source of truth?
Well, in a non trivial
application that is not in your
particular instance of
a front end application.
Is that ultimately the single source of
truth is in your data layer at the server.
And so we need to be able to
communicate to the server and
when we update something,
it needs to go to the server or
if something has been updated,
we need to be able to fetch it.
So we're able to do this with HTTP client,
which comes within an HTTP client module.
And the upside to this is that the API for
this conveniently maps to restful verbs.
And this is one of
the reasons why I like Rest.
It's certainly not perfect, but
one of the things that I like about Rest
is that it is very, very conventional.
And you can through the verbs,
communicate a lot of intents.
So when we're looking at http
client we can call Get, Post, Put,
Delete which are typically the ones
that I use but also Patch, Head request.
And so they're essentially
mapped to the Rest verbs.
So if you wanted to get something
it'd be http.get and so
this is assuming that HTTP is
an instance of HTTP client.
If you wanted to create something I use
Post, if you want to update something,
typically I'll use Put or you can
use Patch, or even Post if you want.
I use Put but
you can also then if you want to
delete something, you can use Delete.
And what's interesting
about HTTP Client is that
the response itself is
an observable stream.
And so we can finalize that
by subscribing to it or
we can pipe this right into our
template using the AsyncPipe.
So we can see here Get and so
we're calling, let me just back this up,
we're calling load items
which has this http.get.
And then we can unpack it in
the component, which, for
kind of a transition step or
skill acquisition step, this is fine.
But ultimately,
what you will end up doing is more than
likely piping this into your
template via an AsyncPipe.
A few things worth pointing
out is that you have
the ability to modify
the headers of your request.
This is pretty important when
you are doing things like
a big one is the authorization bearer or
the token bearer.
So if you have a authenticated
against a remote server and
they've given you
a JavaScript web token that
typically you will put
this in to your header.
And then pass that back so
that it knows that your call
is valid based on the token.
But also not uncommon to
set occasionally I've seen
where servers the way
that they're wired or
they're set up you need to be very
explicit about the content type.
This is also interesting,
in this particular,
example I was using this to
essentially upload a large file to s3.
And this is why I have report progress and
observe set to events so
that I was able to kinda track
the progress as it went along.
Now, we can also use
the catchError operator,
well, to catch the error.
Self documenting code for the win.
And so typically kind of what I do is,
I'll create like a general error handling
method that processes the error
internally while using or
servicing a user friendly
error like throwError.
So, What this looks like
is if you catch an error,
you need to figure out what
you're going to do with it.
And what you definitely do
not wanna do is just be like,
we got this response from the server and
then just make it available
to anybody to see.
That is, it's a really easy
way to leak sensitive data
as well as it can create a sub
optimal user experience.
So a lot of times if something goes wrong
like a user doesn't need to see like
a Stack Overflow.
What they really wanna see is
what happened in friendly terms,
and then more so, what do I do about it?
So, this is where if something
goes wrong in a remote call,
is that I'll use catchError to handle it,
but
then I'll decide,
what am I going to do about it?
Possibly even remote logging or
something, but
then I'll use throwError to
essentially return an observable
with a kind of a friendly
user facing error message.
So just a little bit of kind
of some strategies therefore,
you wanna catch something and
ideally you handle
it as close to the metal or
the error origin.
At the same time you need to surface
something to the user that is appropriate
depending on the situation.
And so here you,
can see I'm calling load items and
we've caught an error, so
we're going to handle it over here.
And we're going to do something
it kind of the local level,
but then using throwError
we're going to surface
something that is user facing and
friendly.
All right, so before we get into component
driven architecture, let's go ahead and
let us see an example of
what this looks like.